---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

This week we made some major refactors to NewtonSVM class.<br>

These include cleaning up all raw pointers and using SGVector, SGMatrix instead.<br>
Using linalg instead of SGVector, SGMatrix for ops.<br>
Making NewtonSVM iterative.<br>
seperately calculating bias and weights. This was being done in a single matrix till now. <br>
Using weights member of LinearMachine instead of local member. This ensures the model is usable when it is paused.<br>
<br>
Next we worked on implementing Pseudo Inverse in linalg.<br>
Any m x n matrix A can be decomposed into A = USVt. If A is self adjoint positive semi definite matrix then a <br>
Symmetrical Self adjoint eigen slover can be used to calculate S and U. The inverse can be expressed as A+ = U * inverse(S)t * Ut.<br>
We have symmetric eigen solver in linalg so we have used that here.
<br><br>
For a general m x n matrix, we have Singular Value Decomposition of A to calculate inverse as A+ = Vt * inverse(S)t * Ut.<br>
This needed to be implemented directly from eigen backend.
<br><br>
With this all of refactoring of NewtonSVM was completed.<br>
We also work on a systematic way to test all Iterative machines. Since they will inherit from Iterativemachine. We can use ctags to<br> 
sort them out and apply our test to them.<br>
 
### Contributions

[NewtonSVM](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4335)<br>
[pinv in linalg](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4335)<br>
[Iterative machine test](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4335)<br>
