---
layout: post
title: Community Bonding Period
---

The Community Bonding Period is over today and from tommorow the Coding Period starts. In this post I will go through a summary of my
Community Bonding.

The first meeting with both of my mentors was very helpful and we made a decision to add a few more things to the work we needed to do.

First was an interface class that would later enable us to scale the Premature Stopping code to classes not inheriting from CMachine. This basically takes all our code
and places it in a nice new StoppableSGObject class.

My mentor's experience proved really helpful in making this easy for me!

Another issue was a reliable testing mechanism for premature stopping. This is still in open discussion and we will be completing it soon.

As a community Bonding excerise all of the new students were required to help out with the new release by porting some meta examples to the new API and also translating some
undocumented ones to meta.

We have also decided to get rid of CLabelsFactory in favor of using 'as' all over shogun. This was a nice refactoring patch.

Overall this week was terrific for me. I got to work on a lot of cool things. The mentors are very helpful and we would be doing a lot more great stuff this summer.


### Pull Requests:
---
[#4236 factory methods in LDA meta example](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4236)<br>
Refactors the lda meta example to use factory methods.<br>
Refactors LDA to work with Dense and Multiclass Labels instead of just Binary.<br>
Refactor unit-LDA by removing repeting code and also using some all over.<br>

[#4277 Delete CLabelsFactory Part1](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4277)<br>
[#4281 Delete CLabelsFactory Part2](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4281)<br>
Deletes CLabelsFactory in favor of using ```as``` in label conversions.

[#4280 CStoppableSGObject class](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4280)<br>
Implements the new CStoppableSGObject base class.

[#4278 distance meta examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4278)<br>
Ported a few distance legacy python examples to meta.<br>
